#summary Wiki Homepage

= ARbot =

An ARbot is a robot developed at Memorial University for education and research.  "AR" represents the Autonomous Robotics course, COMP 4766/6778.  This robot is also used for outreach activities such as the [http://www.mun.ca/science/community/enrichment.php mini course enrichment program].  Since we use the ARbots for many different activities, there are different configurations of components.  We will make reference to the following configurations:

== Configuration 0 ==

Consists of just the Arduino UNO connected to a computer with a working copy of the Arduino IDE.  Okay, so this is not really a robot, but its a good starting point.

INSERT PICTURE

== Configuration 1 ==

Consists of the iRobot Create, connected to the arduino_irobot_bridge, which is connected to the Arduino UNO.  A short USB extender cable is used so that the Arduino can be programmed by connecting to the computer, then disconnected and tested.

INSERT PICTURE

== Configuration 2 ==

Builds on Configuration 1 but incorporates a netbook computer, resting on top of the iRobot Create.  The netbook is connected through two different USB cables to both the Arduino UNO and the iRobot Create.

INSERT PICTURE

== Further Configurations ==

We can build on Configuration 2 by incorporating various sensors and actuators.  Right now we have laser range finders as external sensors and a servo connected to a gripper as an actuator.  Incorporating these two components gives us the following:

INSERT PICTURE

= Hardware =

The arduino_irobot_bridge is a printed circuit board we developed to fulfill the following roles:
  * Draw power from the iRobot Create to supply the Arduino UNO and servo motor connections
  * Provide mounting points, power, and connectivity for the following devices which can be programmed and interfaced through the Arduino
    * MPU 6050 Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU): Used to help determine the robot's relative motion
    * RGB LED: A bright and colourful light, for signalling or just for fun!
    * Potentiometer (i.e. the tall knob): Used for manual adjustments
    * Switch: The bridge can either talk to the robot or to the Arduino.  The switch is used to control this.

_Released as OSHW under Creative Commons 0 - Public Domain to promote educational and research use._

[arduino_irobot_bridge PCB to interface Arduino and iRobot Create]

= Software =
[iRobot_BlocklyDuino]

[iRobot_Arduino_ROS]


= Contributors =

Created by Jordan Smith and Dr. Andrew Vardy at Memorial University of Newfoundland.